All right, so strings, as we have already
seen show up all the time in JavaScript.
In our JavaScript lives,
we will run into strings a lot.
And it's important to know
how to work with them and
some of the tricks they can do.
So, let's talk about working with strings.
Or again, as I like to think of them,
the friendship bracelets of JavaScript.
[LAUGH] So what are strings made up of?
When you're trying to put together one
of these little friendship bracelets you
might have a bunch of beads
each with a letter on them.
In JavaScript, we have strings that
are made up of smaller units of text.
Anybody know what we call
these tiny little units
of text that usually correspond
to something like a letter?
Any idea what we call these?
So we call these little units or
these little letter beads.
>> Characters.
>> Characters, thank you Chat, beautiful.
So characters are what
strings are made of.
Each string is made up of zero or
more character units.
And we could think of these as the little
beads that we could string together to
spell out a word or
a whole sentence or whatever else.
Maybe it's just emoji, who knows?
So characters are the kind of
individual units that make up a string.
So earlier when we had
the .length that we saw returned,
we saw type of some string
.length as a number.
The thing that that number to is
the number of characters in the string.
So in this case, for example, maybe
the second example is easier to find.
So what do you think super in
quotes .length is going to return?
>> Five.
>> Five, cuz we can count that.
Let's just confirm.
Okay, now, how about
supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
.length?
Does anybody off the top of their heads
know how to count a string that long?
No, not me.
Let's find out,
how long is this super long string?
I didn't copy.
Let's find out.
Okay, it's not working.
Let's type it out,
fragilisticexpialidocious.
34 characters that's too long,
it's too many characters that's why
I couldn't even handle it [LAUGH].
[LAUGH] So when we wanna find out how
many characters we're working with
in a particular string, we can use
the .length property to tell us.
And, well, just another note,
let's say we had a string like before.
I had some string .length.
If I type that in, I get 11.
So some four letters,
string as five letter six letters.
Well, where's that extra
letter coming from?
>> Space.
>> The space.
The space itself is a character.
So I can even have a string
of just a space, and
that is still a valid character.
Space is as much a thing as a letter is.
We can also have a string
with no characters,
which is called the empty string.
And if I asked for the length of that
it will tell me 0, still a string.
Even though it has nothing inside of it,
it's still a value of typestring which
I can prove to myself with typeof.
So, characters are the units
from which strings are made up.
And in each string,
characters are in a specific order, right?
It would be kind of chaos if they weren't,
if every word or sentence that we
tried to type was just like whatever
order you want, a jumble of beads.
When we string together these beads,
these little characters we want
them to go in a specific order, and
so each character gets a number.
So, if we have our string
ALOHA, Like on that little letter bead.
We're imagining this on like a little
beaded bracelet or something like that.
Each of these characters in our
string gets assigned a number.
And we start in JavaScript at zero.
So some people will say it looks
like this, you have each character.
In this case,
I'm drawing them like little beads just to
indicate that there are individual units.
Some people would say, so we have
Let's say the number 0 assigned to the A,
the number 1, L, 2, 3, 4.
That essentially each bead
kind of gets its own number.
This is a totally valid
way to think about it.
I would say another way that
we could think about it,
that might come in handy later
in our JavaScript lives is to
think about 0 as being kind of
the point at which the string starts.
And 1 at being the point,
one character later,
and so on and so forth.
So 2, 3, 4 and then at the end
of the string would come a five,
and if we ask this, hey,
how long is this string?
It'll say ALOHA has five characters,
it's five characters long.
And if we asked it,
what is the character at position one?
Let's say, it would tell me which
character starts at that number,
at that one.
So in this case, that would be L, exactly.
So these are two different ways that
you can think about the numbers
assigned to each character.
One is that each kind of
chunk gets its own number.
And the other is that the numbers actually
kind of appear in between the chunks
in between the characters.
And they are an indicator
of which character
starts there, if that makes sense.
Later on in life,
we might find that having that second
mental representation is
helpful when we're talking
about substrings or
smaller strings within the string.
But for now, either way, whichever way
you find more useful to think about it,
both of them are valid.